at c-span.org or with our free mobile video app C-SPAN N now. >> Press inviting first lady Jill Biden delivered remarks at a toys for tots event at a Marine Corps base in Arlington, Virginia. >> Ladies and gentlemen please welcome. [Inaudible] [Applause]  

♪♪ good afternoon, are excited? All right. So they were very lucky to be your decelerate the 75th anniversary of toys for tots. You guys know in 75 years, children just like you and other United States volunteers working with the American Marines helped 281 million children. 

[6:38:03 AM]

[Applause] There are 14 million children in the United States living below the poverty line that means they are at risk. And last year, last year some of you the Marines and 55000 American volunteers helped almost 9 million children. We are going to do it again this year. [Applause] And finally I would say some of us think toys for tots is only for Christmas time and the holidays. It is actually a year-round effort there's a major effort on literacy were going to have a chance to help with that too. But first we're going to just think the bands. Thank you for playing today and for coming. [Applause] And, as you can tell we have some really special guests. It is my great honor to introduce our first lady Dr. Jill Biden. [Applause] Thank you very much. 

[6:39:08 AM]

And thank you to the family as well. And thank you for your service. I am so happy to be of some great friends today who also happen to be these spouses of art department of defense and service leaders. I want to thank them for coming out to help. So merry Christmas and happy holidays. I am sorry, I have laryngitis. So how many of you know this book? Everybody, wow. Okay. [Laughter] I love this book but as a matter of fact I might have dressed up as the grinch for a white house event when I was second lady. You probably know the whole story of the grinch. But I would like to read you one of my favorite parts. Okay actually is there is someone who would want to come up and read are you a good reader? Yes come on up. 

[6:40:19 AM]

Okay, just this page. >> And the grinch ice cold in the snow and how cold it came without ribbons and it came without ads. Came without box or bag. And he puzzled three hours until the storm that the grinch felt something he hadn't before. Maybe he Christmas he thought didn't come for a storm. Maybe it Christmas had to mean 

[6:41:21 AM]

just a little bit more. [Applause] Thank you you did a great job. Thank you Adam. [Applause] Wow. [Laughter] He did a great job. If there's one group of kids it understands what the holidays are about more than what is under the tree, it is you. All of you, our military children. You understand the gifts that mean the most cannot be the ones held in our hands. You need a friend or time with the people you love or chance to serve your community in your country with honor and pride. Those things cannot be bought. They are only given with our hearts. Soap military kids like you give our country so much. You support your parents through moves and deployments, and you sometimes help take care of family members who came home 

[6:42:23 AM]

with may be illnesses or injuries. And you helped out neighbors when they needed. Just like you were going to do today. Now, I bet a lot of you put up trees and lights they are home already. How many of you have done that? Most of you, wow. While, at the white house we do the same thing. But how many trees do you think we have? How many do you think? >> 150. That is close. How about you? >> I think like maybe 155? >> Close, you? 106 but you are all pretty close we have 77 trees in the white house. I hope you will all come take a tour and visit. We have millions of lights and we have one very special room 

[6:43:25 AM]

called the way the children. It is decorated to honor kids just like you with drawing and reflections of the magic that really children like all of you bring to our holidays. And you remind us that even though we have a lot of challenges ahead, our future is full of promise because you are going to lead it. Just like the grinch himself. Seeing all of you here eager to make someone else's holiday a little more special. It is enough to make my heart grow three sizes as well. So thank you to toys for tots for bringing us all together. So merry Christmas and may you receive as much love this holiday as you give. And now it is my honor and pleasure to introduce our next speaker, some are at Donna here. And in addition to supporting 

[6:44:27 AM]

her parents through deployment, to Iraq and Afghanistan, she has plans to follow in Joe's footsteps and become president of the United States. [Applause] I can't wait to vote for you. She just has to finish school first and wait about 25 years until she is eligible. So anyway, we are all rooting for you. So come on up. >> Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. I am samara Donahue I go to elementary school in Virginia. Today I'm here with my mom and my dad with my sister and my brother. We are proud marine corp family. I look toys for tots it's a fun 

[6:45:28 AM]

way for all of us to come together and bring and bring joy and bless the less fortunate kids across America. So to all the families as a going through difficult times, know this. We have not forgotten you, we care about you, we look for during the joy of Christmas to you third choice for tots. And to my fellow military families we are proud of you and very grateful for the sacrifices you make each and every day. And you are in our thoughts and prayers always. It is now my greatest honor to introduce you the 46 the president of the United States of America, president Joe Biden. [Cheering] [Applause] >> When I was that age I could hardly say my name in public. Actually I used to stutter when I was a little boy, until I was 

[6:46:29 AM]

in high school. Anyway you are a very precious child, thank you. Good afternoon. And some are, thank you for everything. Kids like you are the reason why I've been never been so optimistic about our country. Think about it. I just have one request, when you are president of the united States and they say Joe Biden is in the outer office, promise me you will not save to your staff Joe who? Will you remember me? Okay that's all I ask. To thank you and welcome us today I told him he and I and something in common we both married way above our station. It's a pleasure to see you. Lieutenant general Lester you truly exemplify the marine motto. Always, always faithful. Over 30 years of service in uniform for more leading toys 

[6:47:29 AM]

for tots print out to thank you as well for not walking away. Folks, it is an honor to be with you celebrate his 75th anniversary of this incredible because it is an incredible cause. Toys for tots of the best events of the year at the white house. We set up donation boxes everywhere. Last week one of the collection boxes in the Eisenhower building had huge things, stuffed animal smiling toy buddy perched on the edge. You cannot see something like that without smiling. And that is what you all do. For 75 years you brought joy, laughter and smiles to families all across this country. Last your loan you collected 22 million toys for more than 8 million children, giving Santa a run for his money. But unlike Santa we don't wear big red suits but you do not travel the world in just one night but instead your dress blues and army greens and marine 

[6:48:31 AM]

soldiers, sailors you sent walked around the world every single night. As Jill mentioned we have a children's room at the white house. One of the pieces of this year's broader holiday theme is we the people when he comes the white house. Those of the very first words of our consultation and trip constitution for they are the very idea of America. We the people see you, the best of us. The women and men who give everything to our country and get back to our communities. You are not just the heart and soul of our nation you are the very spine of our nation and we owe you. And we the people also see all the spouses, partners and children here today. Jill and I know how much you give to our nation and how much you sacrifice. The English poet John note once wrote they also serve who only stand and wait. And it is true. We know that for those with husbands, wives, moms, dads, 

[6:49:32 AM]

friends, loved ones deployed overseas it can be extra tough this time of year. When our son Bo was deployed in Iraq for a year, it was hard to look at that empty seat at the dinner table every night. Particularly on the holidays. For our granddaughter and grandson they're the same age as many of you here today brings even harder to not have the data around Christmas morning. So want to tell you what I told them, you have to keep brave it. You have to be brave. Your mommies and daddy's are far away they are so proud of you. I am so proud of you as your president. All of you here today you all give back. You're helping other people other kids just like your parents help. And sometimes just a little bit of help can change everything for someone. I think about the story toys for tots shared of a young girl only nine years old who fled violence from Nicaragua to come to the 

[6:50:32 AM]

United States with her family. It was about 35 years ago. Her parents had saved all the pennies they were able to get here. And they told her Christmas is not going to happen this year when she arrived 35 years ago. But then one morning a big toys for tots truck pulled up to her new home in San Jose. Marines hopped out, and she got to pick a gift. You know what she picked? A huge stuffed bunny. She used it as a pillow. That little girl grew up to join the United States Marine Corps. She served our country in uniform for 26 years. She is now major in the marine Corps. I wish she could be here today but she is on active duty. She still remembers that first Christmas in the United States. And she shared her story with toys for tots. This program gives so much more than gifts. You give community or the 

[6:51:34 AM]

inspiration to last a lifetime for that's not hyperbole you know it's true you've seen it on the faces of these children. So all you kids, keep it up keep on being brave. Keep on being involved. Keep on helping other people and may god bless you all and you have a very merry Christmas and may god protect our troops. Net let's get sorting these gifts, okay? Are you with me? [Applause] 'S all right. [Applause] 
